The Project Gutenberg EBook of Moby Dick; or The Whale, by Herman Melville

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Moby Dick; or The Whale

Author: Herman Melville

Release Date: November 20, 2000 [EBook #2701]
Last Updated: December 3, 2017
dkgjl_kwjrngk_krgjn_erkljgn
Language: English
abbb_jkn_
abbb
Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOBY DICK; OR THE WHALE ***



Produced by Daniel Lazarus
HTML markup by Jon B. Hare, March 2008


ETYMOLOGY.

(Supplied by a Late Consumptive Usher to a Grammar School)

The pale Usher--threadbare in coat, heart, body, and brain; I see him
now.  He was ever dusting his old Lexicons and Grammars, with a queer
handkerchief, mockingly embellished with all the gay flags of all the
known nations of the world.  He loved to dust his old Grammars; it
somehow mildly reminded him of his mortality.

"I was a bit of a ragged lad, and always wanting to be a seaman, but
they wouldn't let me go a whaling, and so the end of that was that I
became a schoolmaster."

GRAND PREFACE.

"Loomings."


Call me Ishmael. Some years ago--never mind how long precisely--having
little or no money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me
on shore, I thought I would sail about a little and see the watery part
of the world. It is a way I have of driving off the spleen and
regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myself growing grim about
the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
I find myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and bringing
up the rear of every funeral I meet; and especially whenever my hypos get
such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral principle to
prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and methodically
knocking people's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea
as soon as I can. This is my substitute for pistol and ball. With a
philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword; I quietly
take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. If they but knew
it, almost all men in their degree, some time or other, cherish very
nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me.

There now is your insular city of the Manhattoes, belted round by
wharves as Indian isles by coral reefs--commerce surrounds it with
her surf.  Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Corlears
Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward. What
do you see?--Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
multitudes of men and boys, all riveted to that unsurveyable ocean.

Whose hearts are not grappled by the mildness of the sea, who are led
away by the barbarous pagantry of power, and who do not seek to
molify, with whatever soothings, the remorseless rigor of social life?
All are collected at the water's edge. Old as